Hey friends. I want to
thank our sponsor. Reagan, are
you struggling to replicate the
bugs and performance issues that
your customers are reporting? Plug
Reagan into your web and
mobile applications right now, and
diagnose problems in minutes rather
than hours. Kiss goodbye. Having
to dig through log files
and relying on frustrated users
to report issues, make your
software development life so much
easier. Using Reagan's error, crash,
and performance monitoring tools. Every
software team can create flawless
software experiences for their customers
with Reagan cry it free
today@raygun.com. That's our a Y
G U n.com. . Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is an episode of Hansel
minutes today. I'm talking with
dr. Muriel Reese. He's a
clinical psychologist from Silverdale, Washington.
I'm great. Thank you. You
have got a great podcast
called brain science@achangelog.com slash brain
science, and I've without realizing
it, I've been talking to
a number of people in
the kind of clinical psychology
space, thinking about burnout and
depression and anxiety. I don't
feel like I have any
of those things, but it
is significant that without realizing
it, people are showing up
in my life in this
space. So I'm really excited
to talk to you today.
Thank you. I'm excited to
share this because you know,
brain science and really our
hope for the podcast is
really not just what we
know about the brain, but
how, what we know about
the brain can affect how
we do our lives and
ourselves. And so it's all
about utility. And I think
we're in a world where
we're all under a microscope
because so many people are
on social media, but then
also we have so much
data. And I think a
lot of us are overwhelmed
with data. Whether that data
be emails that I'm not
going to read, or, you
know, people that are coming
into my life, I guess
their data as well. Amen.
Yeah, it is all these
things. Like we, we take
in information through our senses
and our brain is always
trying to make sense of
it. It's interesting because, you
know, I always say it's
not the eyes that see
or the ears that hear,
but how our brain puts
that puzzle together. Hmm. That's
very interesting. And as we
are in a situation where,
you know, facts themselves are
unclear, as things are coming
at us and we all
interpret us to interpret them
differently, everything is up for
interpretation. Now there's this, this
is article that I was
reading on the New York times.
And I'll put it in
the show notes that is
talking about Instagram and social
media primarily focuses on women
and how they feel about
social media. But it's about
being real. How can we
be ourselves when we are
observed? I think is the
essence of the, of the
question. Well, yes. And part
of that is that how
other people see you and
how you see yourself aren't
necessarily the same and I'm
not ever in charge of
anybody else's perception. You know,
it was interesting having children.
I always get the opportunity
to expose, expose myself to
things I hadn't planned on.
And one of those things
recently was actually an experience
with VR. So my go
to my son's friend's birthday
party, and I had an
opportunity to do this game,
so to speak where I
did this elevator experience. So
I go up the elevator
and then there's a plank
when the door opens that
I can walk off of.
And so I'm going up
and I'm taking in all
the data, which is like
the beautiful elevator music and
you know, the buttons on
the elevator and the doors
open and here's skyscrapers and
sky and birds. And so
knowing what I know about
the brain, and I know
I'm standing on the ground,
but yet my eyes, my
visual system is taking in
this data that is alternative
to other data points. I
know. And so I literally
got down and actually touched
the ground beside the plank.
Yeah. But I had to
take in additional information in
order to tell my brain
that what I was seeing,
wasn't actually legitimate. Oh, I
took my sons to one
of these called tree to
tree, the situations where they
link you up on a
tree and you're like a
hundred feet up on a
ridiculous tree in the middle
of a forest. And you're,
you're, you're very much, belayed
your LinkedIn, like, there's no
chance that you're going to
fall and die. Right. And
they're like, yeah, walk between
this tree and that tree.
And it's like on a
rope or a single string
or a piece of fishing
line. And I watched my
kids just say, Oh, so
you're telling me that this
won't kill me. And then
they like yank on it
twice and they go, okay,
I believe you. And then
they just go and they
go running. I was like,
Oh, I had never felt
I got a headache that
I'd never seen before. It
was almost like the lizard
part of my brain that
has spent near 50 years
trying to keep me from
dying. It's not shut off.
Yeah, you're exactly right. And
that's so much so when
we're faced with some of
these alternative data points, imagine
that we have these different
aspects of our brain that
come into play and what
we're really trying to manage
so much of the time
is how not to die.
Like our brain is right.
Our brain is always first
and foremost, its primary gig
is trying to keep us
alive. And so when we're
activated in that place of
threat, whether it's on social
media or up in a
tree, we tend to see
far and we see narrow.
So there could be a
rope beside me, or there
could be some other life
preserver. However, my brain is
an app to see it
because the way in which
my brain is wired, if
there's a saber tooth tiger,
I need to see it
from far away. I don't
need to take in all
of the data. I need
to, to narrow my focus
and see what's essential As
I struggle too, as I
struggled to raise these, these
children, I keep wanting to
encourage them to look at
the long game, like think
about after high school and
think about after college and
think about when you're 30
and they literally can't think
past Tuesday. Yeah. But at
the same time, the older
I get the farther in
the future that I see
and that, and most of
my goals and goal setting
are all set out in
the future long range as
well. I didn't realize that
my focus has changed. Yeah.
Well, part of that is
the development of the frontal
lobe. So frontal lobe right
there in the foremost frontal
part of your head right
behind your skull is this
part of our brain. That's
responsible for what we call
executive function. And so if
you think of everything that
an executive assistant does, so
they're looking at part to
whole relationships like now and
later it's how fast you
process information. It's how you
problem solve. It's how you,
you know, shift between two
different things in terms of
attention. And the thing is,
is that doesn't begin to
really come online more until
adolescence and it isn't fully
cooked. So to speak until
like mid twenties for women,
and usually later twenties for
boys, for men Or mid
forties, depending on who you
ask. Well, and the other
fascinating thing about this is
that dopamine, which is our
feel good neurotransmitter. It's like,
anytime we do something that
feels good, you can say,
thank you, dopamine. This works
the same in adolescents that
it does in adults, but
yet you don't have that
braking system that impulse control
that part of the frontal
lobe is responsible for until
later in life. So it's
like, Oh, that sounds fun.
Let's just go ahead and
try it. Yay. Okay. So
this explains why all of
the don't eat that candy
you'll rot, your teeth messaging
is being lost on my
people. Amen. Yeah. They just
don't care. And really, you
know, we talk about this
in some of our episodes
about forming habits that our
brains don't really care about
what is going to happen
long range, because part of
what you're doing, Scott is
holding both intention and that
I need to do what
feels good now, but also
that's going to benefit me
in the future. And so
I will, yeah, I will
embrace to some degree the
suck of whatever I'm doing,
because I know it's going
to pay off Well. And
I'm also older because I
remember all of the suck
and I know that a
little bit of suck now
can make a lot more
comfort later. So I'm able
to make trade offs across
time. Yeah. And so this
is really important when it
comes to learning and that
what I really work hard
with both patients and my
children is I reinforce their
effort and the frustration tolerance
with the effort so that
I'm not so fixated on
an outcome, because like we
talked about earlier that outcome
I'm trying to manage threat
or the possibility of future
threat, they don't really care.
Okay. So if you're, if
we, if we pivot a
little bit, hopefully not awkwardly.
And we think about developers
and techies and it, people
there is an amount of
willpower, but there's an amount
of mental exercise. I think
that is required perhaps in
the developer or the technical
person's brain that maybe isn't
as much in other jobs.
I mean, every job you're
always learning, but one of
the things we talk about
when we think about programmers
and techies is the absolute
requirement that you always learn
less, you get into obsolescence
must faster than if you
were in another job. Right.
But so that is challenging.
So I'd say that requires
a high degree of cognitive
load and you're doing a
lot of frontal lobe functions.
So in the same way,
you could like drive somewhere,
drive a long distance and
you might be incredibly fatigued
by the end of the
day, but you didn't really
do a lot of activity
it's because you had attention
and you were still utilizing
motor systems, you know, memory
systems like your brain was
fully frontal. Is that why
we put so much after
these long days? It's a
different kind of hurt though.
My, my wife is a
nurse and she comes home
and physically hurts. Cause she's
standing all day and I
come home and I'm just
a useless mess because I've
been, I dunno, head forward
all this time. Yeah. And
you're utilizing. So even the
way in which like memory
works like you guys and
attention, which is a sort
of all in one gig,
we need attention in order
to have memory, but you
guys are holding different things,
conceptually simultaneously and shifting, set,
shifting between them over and
over and over again, and
then having to problem solve.
So going, how does this
data point relate to that
data point? How does this
system work and how can
I translate this information? So
just like a physical muscle
under tension is going to
give out. So it will
with our brains. Can I
use this information now to
make things better? Is this
simply a matter of knowing
that this is a thing
now can make me have
more control of it? Yeah,
exactly. So thinking about it,
I think it was recently,
you had dr. Simon's on
and talking about the concept
of burnout with managing resources.
And so I know this
and we're trained in this
as psychologists around. I know
that what I'm using in
all of my work with
my patients is myself. Furthermore,
I'm taking on a lot
of energy because I'm dealing
with emotions that people either
are aware of or are
not aware of. And so
I make decisions all the
time around an allocation of
my energy. And I would
say that it really shifted
one when I had one
child, but definitely felt it
when I had to, because
I was sharing my resources,
my mental energy with more
than just myself and my
husband, that is why caregivers
burnout So much is that
they're chopping off pieces of
energy and giving it to
someone else and forgetting that
it has to be replenished.
Exactly. And so I'll even
make decisions around different work
demands so that I allocate
energy according to the greatest
priority or the hardest thing.
Like I learned really early
on to always start with
the hardest thing. And that
might be the thing that
like takes the most amount
of cognitive bandwidth, but it
could also be the thing
that I am most adversive
to. And that is maturity
and frontal lobe, you know,
like executive function, because last
night at 10 30 at
night, my 12 year old
said that they have a
paper due and due in
90 minutes. And I was
just like, you could have
been doing this at any
time in the last three
weeks that what you were
able to do, because you're
a grown, they were not
able to do yesterday. Yeah,
yeah. But so all of
this sort of planning and
allocating and recognizing too that
in different seasons of life,
or like, be it, you
have aging parents or somebody
else with health issues, like
if I'm remembering correctly, your
wife battled cancer. And I'm
certain that during that season
of time that your energy
was different than what it
is today when she's not
ill. Yeah, Absolutely. And in
fact, five years later, the
echoes remain and the side
effects remain. So those moments
of, of energy go up
and down based on how
we are all feeling that
particular day. Right. And so
I always talk about this
cause I don't want people
like knowing doesn't help me
do myself any better. So
just the pure knowledge doesn't
change anything. But acknowledging that,
say this task or, you
know, certain thing I'm trying
to develop app I'm working
on is hard for me
or more challenging. Then I'm
going to identify an action.
So I want to acknowledge
and then act. So I'm
going to sort of write
my own prescription over what
I could do differently. Like
I would offer from my
understanding that with your wife,
you guys journaled like during
that whole time. And so
you really operated by this
name it, or name it
to tame it principle so
that the more that you
could articulate or put words
to the experience, it was
as though you were creating
your own Dewey decimal system
of it. So it defragged
all of that mental energy
because you knew where to
put it. That is true
though. Like you say, name
it to tame it. Sometimes
in software engineering, we say
name it and claim it.
When we talk about naming
objects, the idea of naming
something has power. If you
have a, an under an
undiagnosed disease, it is extremely
difficult, but once you get
a name for it, it
still sucks. It just sucks
measurably differently. Correct. Because you
then can look at what
can I do while this
is the case. And so
that's what I would say
when you're talking about sort
of managing cognitive load of
going while this particular thing
is challenging. I'm going to
reallocate my energy accordingly Because
this could be a bad
thing. I feel like that
when, you know, a very
long time ago, there were,
you know, there were fewer
peanut allergies, there were fewer
anxiety and ADHD diagnoses. I'm
sure all of those things
existed except the name didn't
exist when we start naming
something, whether it be clinically
or otherwise, it, it can
give a lot of people
power, but could it, it
can also give people even
more anxiety because they can
name something and claim it
for themselves, but it might
not be theirs Well, so
this is the other thing,
you know, where attention goes,
energy flows. So the more
that I focus on something,
I'm, I'm feeding my attention
towards that. So it doesn't
help me just focus on
a challenge. And like this
sucks, this sucks, or this
is hard and yes, this
is why I'm struggling. But
rather, what else can I
do as to buffer that,
That sounds like the clinical
version of like, don't worry
about the haters. Well, it's
going, what do I do
with them? Like how would
I approach it? Would I
be like, you know what?
I'm going to look at
all of the messages and
I'm going to spend 15
minutes and just like go
all in. We would call
this flooding in terms of
exposure therapy. I'm just going
to flood myself with all
of the junk. I don't
want to hear. And then
I'm going to go do
something that actually feels really
good Folks. I'm taking this
episode to advertise for other
podcasts. If you enjoy stories
about the people behind the
technology that we use, you
should check out the greater
than code podcast. They focus
on the human side of
software development with stories of
diversity and inclusion, accessibility from
people that you don't normally
hear from search for greater
than code in your favorite
podcast app, or check out
greater than code.com. You know,
that's really interesting. So it's
so funny to hear like
the kind of more official
or more, you know, like
what a clinical psychologist like
yourself knows to be true
because research shows it and
experience shows it in many
years, show it versus a
parental wisdom, which is oftentimes
made up. But one of
the greatest tips that my
mom ever gave me, and
I've said this in talks
before, and I'll say it
now is, Oh, wow. You
know, you, you feel bad,
don't you? Yeah. I feel
bad, mom. Well, put a
time limit on it. Pick
a time, pick a time.
It could be 15 minutes.
It could be six weeks,
but pick a time, set
a timer, feel as bad
as you can and then
stop. And she was basically
doing flooding. She's like, yeah,
sit here and cry. And
like, you got an F
on that test. It sucks
that doesn't work for everything,
but it has been one
of the number one tips
for me is just flood.
No, it accept it, let
it wash over you and
then move onto the next
thing. Yeah. And this is
at the heart of what
it means. Like even all
of the different things we're
talking about with like anxiety
and willpower. And that really,
what I want to do
is cultivate resiliency so that
when I get knocked down,
I can learn how to
get back up. Because oftentimes
what happens such as in
the case with anxiety or
phobias, I will have an
experience that feels incredibly abrasive
and deleterious to myself. And
so then I'll practice avoiding
that, that thing that was
unpleasant. However, what, by doing
that, I forfeit the data
because I think it's actually
going to help me, but
I forfeit finding out that
I could feel differently by
exposing myself to it. Interesting.
So we are in a
world where we have a
very, very often, very appropriately
trigger warnings for content and
things like that, which are
very much a place where
someone needs to protect themselves
from something that could be
sincerely damaging. But then I
hear people using the term
anxiety, or I feel anxious
when I maybe wouldn't use
that word. Like if you
were going to give a
big presentation, how would you
know when that's dangerous data
or when it's actually potentially
positive? Well, so this is
part of even that decision
making and identifying in the
experience and going, I wouldn't
call it anxiety because anxiety
usually involves a sense of
threat. But, and while that
might be threatening to you,
if I'm going to give
a presentation, right. Cause I
don't know what people are
going to actually hear versus
what I actually said, because
that doesn't always go together,
right? Because everybody's got a
different filter and way in
which they put together pieces
of information. And so I
would look at, is there
asking myself, is there an
actually an identifiable threat? Because
if my brain's job is
always to try to keep
me alive, of course, it's
going to signal to me
that I need to heed
some warning, but in the
same way that monopoly money
won't work the same as
regular money, I need to
be able to differentiate and
sort of categorize anxiety as
it relates to something that's
going to move me in
a direction of growth versus
one, that's going to move
me in direction of threat.
I love that monopoly money
idea. I just, I have
this image of like, like,
you know, I'm, I'm super
anxious, I'm very anxious. I'm
having an anxiety attack, but
it's a monopoly money, anxiety
tag, right. And it's, it's,
it's bad. Like it hurts
in the moment, but ultimately
it's not going to change.
So you're saying that a
positive anxiety can be a
fuel that one can tap
into not to disparage or
discount. Anyone's legitimate threat based
anxiety, but positive anxiety is
really the anticipation of something
that may not be as
threatening as we think it
is. Right. And that's not
to say like, it's, it's
interesting. Cause a lot of
what people tend to be
afraid of or fearful of
for the future, it's something
that's already happened to them.
How do you mean In
the sense that I've already
encoded that data? And so
my brain knows that that's
threatening because once upon a
time it was, But maybe
it's not now today. Right?
So imagine I'm deconditioning my
brain around something that did
happen in the past, but
is not actively occurring. Okay.
So analogy, time or direct
experience analogy. So I've been
recently taking TaeKwonDo and it's
something that I've learned that
I should have done 20
years ago. And I just
now discovered this sport and
I did a tournament and
I'm in the tournament. I
got, you know, somewhat hurt,
like, you know, bust your
toe hurt kind of hurt,
but not, not legitimately hurt.
And I was really on
full speed, like the same
headache that I got when
I was trying to climb
those trees, which was like,
I'm going to freaking die.
But then I did my
second tournament and I went
into it completely different. I
just realized that this other
middle aged older man who
is also taking TaeKwonDo, but
just lives in a different
neighborhood is not legitimately trying
to kill me with his
feet. It sounds silly. But
I was like, I'm going
to get my beat. And,
and I didn't. And I
was like, okay, well this
is another fat guy from,
from the other side of
town. And when I went
into it with this idea
that, yeah, I probably get
hurt. I might get a
bruiser too. And I did,
but this person was not
trying to kill me. And
it completely changed how I
looked at the thing. Yes,
yes. This is so huge
because you're no, it, it
is your brain is firing.
Like it's so crazy. So
research is, I find I'm
fascinated by. And so somebody
thought of doing a research
study around building thumb strength.
Okay. And they looked at
whether or not you actually
build, strengthen your thumb by
picturing it or doing it
because a lot of athletes
use visualization as a method
for training. And what was
fascinating is, is that people
actually cultivated strength in their
thumb. I'll be at not
to the same degree, but
strengthen on the last, by
simply picturing it because neurons
that fire together wire together.
So the more that I
think of thought, the more
that I practice seeing things
a certain way, I'm building
a network in my brain
that says, this is the
way to work. We go,
Well, then we need to
understand why I don't have
a six pack because I
have been thinking about it
for quite a few decades,
but it's not working that
way. Yes. But how much
activity are you doing? Thinking
about it? If I got
credit for every time I
thought about working out, I
would be amazing at this
point, but Right. But you
had the live event and
so you actually had the
emotional experience with the thoughts.
And so it was far
more comprehensive. I see. Okay.
So that is the different
story sitting down and visualizing
my TaeKwonDo practice does fire
certain neurons. It doesn't do
the complete package. It's the
virtual reality version of actually
doing it. One is more,
more inclusive and more complete.
Right? And so part of
what I, what I would
offer in these situations, when
you have anxiety in doing
a job or with people,
is that you imagine using
more of your whole brain,
that we want all access
to all of your brain.
And so when you're activated
or perceiving a sense of
threat, you're spot on in
saying it was more like
your reptilian brain at play.
And look, I can have
super long conversations with lizards
about what they should do
and how they should act,
but they don't really care.
Yeah. Their scope, their scope
of, of goals. They're planning,
their future looking is all
limited. No, exactly. If I
am an alligator and I
see a baby, I'm not
going to reason it out
and think I shouldn't eat
a baby because I think
they're going to hurt Really
dark. This may be the
first time that that ever
came up on the show
and all these episodes, which,
which actually brings me to
another interesting question. When we
think about being a programmer
or being a techie, I
was, I was working with
my mentorship group. I've got
some young people that I
mentor. And one of them
said, there's a lot more
squishy bits than I thought
that would be like, what
do you mean by squishy
bits? So I was like,
well, I thought I was
going to be here to
do deep analysis. And I
would be like, my technical
ability would be challenged for
the next 30 years. And
that would be my career.
But I have to keep
dealing with all these humans
and they don't do the
stuff that I want them
to do. Isn't that the
truth? So, you know, my
husband always has said, since
our children were young and
as they'd grown up, he's
like, you know, seven or
47, it doesn't make a
difference because we still have
to learn how to navigate
ourselves while other people make
choices. We wouldn't make think
things. We wouldn't think and
do things we wouldn't do.
And it's the little stuff.
Like if you listen to
one of the shows with
my wife, like we've been
in living in this house
for 12 years, she still
turns left at the light.
And I turn right at
the light and we are
both convinced that that's the
quickest way home. And it's
like, why do you insist
on that? Like, why do
you you're, you're, you're fool's
errand that you're going right
at the light. Everyone knows
going left at the light
is the only true way.
Yes. But, you know, could
you convince the other one
that, I mean, the other
way is right. And would
that really matter? That's the
essence right there. So when
you are dealing with these
decisions and these decision points,
I, my wife and I
actually made a kind of
a pact or a contract
with each other where we
said, you know, I was
okay before you and I
would be okay after you.
And I don't want to
be, I don't want to
be here after you, but
just to be clear, I
was kind of kicking butt
in life before you came
around. So let's just know
that when things aren't, you
know, when you're frustrated or
you think I can reboot
the router, I will probably
be able to figure out
how to reboot the router.
Well, And so with that,
I would offer that there's
a big difference in how
it feels when we're connected
to others, as opposed to
complying with others. You got
all the little, little nuggets
there don't you. Well, I
think it's super helpful because
you know how we remember
will help us do ourselves
differently in these situations. And
so if I am to
say that somebody else has
to look like, I do
think like I do do
like I do, I am
forfeiting all of what they
have to offer as a
unique human. And that's what
makes us beautiful. Like, I
don't care about the same
things that everybody else does,
but that's a great, great,
great thing because they go
fight those fights and they
build skills in order to
change how that thing interacts
or interfaces. But we do
have to agree on stuff
though, like at some core
level, like don't kill people
and be nice. Well, are
we talking about morality or
preference because this is it.
I try to work really
hard with people because we
talk about this in cognitive
distortions, when I am solely
embedded in all or nothing
or binary ways of thinking,
then I'm apt to sort
of say that there is
a right and a wrong
way to do things when
there's just a way to
do things. And if I'm
going to talk about right
and wrong, it should be
far more applicable in the
lane of morality. And that's
why I don't kill people.
Not whether it's right or
wrong to turn right or
left or to say yes,
or say no to a
certain opportunity or a way
to write code or not
write it. Okay. That is
a really interesting point. Right?
So in the computer world,
we talk about pragmatists versus
purists and you look at
two pieces of code and
someone might say, well, this
is the pure, this is
the way we've always done
it. This is the way
that our ancestors wrote code.
And you know, well, this
is the one that works
and it took this many
fewer lines and it's perfectly
fine that isn't a morality
issue. You can, you can
frame it as one, but
that would be a lie.
Yeah. Because it's, that's part
of what makes the person
human coming to the code.
And if I want to
be like you guys do
a lot of things that
involve creativity and creativity, there's
a component that is solely
related to you. When I
watch, when, I mean, I
think kids are like the
best sort of research lab
because it's further enhancing data
I've got. And so I
watched the art teacher teach
my kids the whole class,
you know, these sort of,
Hey, we're going to make
this picture, but which one
of the 22 kids in
the class looks the same.
They look similar, but they
are, none are the same.
And so I don't want
to sit beside somebody else
and tell them to diminish
who they are so that
I can feel okay about
who I am. That is
a very, that's a very
positive and very like well
oriented expression of the idea
of inclusion. So if deal
with the morality of things,
everyone should be able to
have, you know, life, Liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness
is our morality. And then
how you go about your
life, Liberty and pursuit of
happiness, doesn't matter. As long
as you have the right
to exist and be appreciated
and find people that love
you, then do your thing.
Yeah. I would say we
work better when we have
a sense of respect and
empathy for others. And that,
you know, I in working
beside people who don't think
like I do and do,
don't do like I do.
I also recognize that there's
things that work better for
people being able to work
as a team or beside
other people than other things.
I mean, if I berate
you and like go off
to high heaven, when you
messed up on some, you
know, task, you were responsible
for that, doesn't help you
actually solve the problem. Let
alone want to hang out
with the other person in
any other way, other than
to get the task accomplished.
And that is the thing,
right? Like we do have
to hang out with these
people afterwards. They are our
coworkers or our wives and
partners and husbands that we
do, like, think about the
decision you make. I need
to start to my 12
year old like that may
or may not be correct,
but you may also need
to understand that that person
will be in class tomorrow
as well. Right. And look,
I say like, to some
degree, we're all still learning.
Like when we raise kids,
like not everybody is launched
with the same skillset or
level of expertise. And so
I want people to embrace
this process of learning across
all aspects of their life.
And so we have to
develop relational skills and emotional
skills if we're going to
even do our technol technological
skills different because none of
us get to opt out
of humanity first and foremost.
Yes. My dad always says,
none of us are getting
out of this alive. Yeah,
exactly. And so I want,
I think in terms, if
I do anything binary, I
look at whether things are
adaptive or maladaptive, do they
work well or not work
well? And so if I
have an interaction with somebody
else who, you know, in
my world comes across incredibly
abrasive, I try to look
at and go in what
way could I establish a
common ground with this individual
so that I could see
more of their heart, their
motivation in terms of what
their, their effort is, as
opposed to the way in
which they present it to
me or relate to me,
Giving me a lot to
think about it. And folks
can hear more of what
you have to say at
dot com slash brain
science on the new brain
science podcast, everything from coping
skills, humans and habits, relationships
managing mental health. You are
a font of information, dr.
Mary L. Reese. Thank you so much
for chatting with me today.
Thank you so much, Scott.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week. .